Enrich CQ migration guide and add Flux/InfluxQL parity (#2102)
influxdata/docs-v2: content/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/flux-vs-influxql.md

- [Tasks possible with Flux](#tasks-possible-with-flux)
- [InfluxQL and Flux parity](#influxql-and-flux-parity)

## Tasks possible with Flux

- [Joins](#joins)
- [Math across measurements](#math-across-measurements)
- [Sort by tags](#sort-by-tags)
- [Group by any column](#group-by-any-column)
- [Window by calendar months and years](#window-by-calendar-months-and-years)
- [Work with multiple data sources](#work-with-multiple-data-sources)
- [DatePart-like queries](#datepart-like-queries)
- [Pivot](#pivot)
- [Histograms](#histograms)
- [Covariance](#covariance)
- [Cast booleans to integers](#cast-booleans-to-integers)
- [String manipulation and data shaping](#string-manipulation-and-data-shaping)
- [Work with geo-temporal data](#work-with-geo-temporal-data)

### Joins
InfluxQL has never supported joins. Although you can use a join in a [TICKscript](/{{< latest "kapacitor" >}}/tick/introduction/),
TICKscript's join capabilities are limited.
Flux's [`join()` function](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/join/) lets you
join data **from any bucket, any measurement, and on any columns** as long as
each data set includes the columns to join on. 

> This opens the door for really powerful and useful operations.

Author: ```suggestion
```

let you shape, filter, and group geo-temporal data.

```js
import "experimental/geo"

from(bucket: "geo/autogen")
  |> range(start: -1w)
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "taxi")
  |> geo.shapeData(latField: "latitude", lonField: "longitude", level: 20)
  |> geo.filterRows(
    region: {lat: 40.69335938, lon: -73.30078125, radius: 20.0},
    strict: true
  )
  |> geo.asTracks(groupBy: ["fare-id"])
```

## InfluxQL and Flux parity
We're continuing to add functions to complete parity between Flux and InfluxQL.
The table below shows InfluxQL statements, clauses, and functions along with their equivalent Flux functions.

_For a complete list of Flux functions, [view all Flux functions](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/all-functions/)._

| InfluxQL                                                                                                                                          | Flux Functions                                                                                                                                                                                   |

> | --------                                                                                                                                          | --------------                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Author: ```suggestion
|:--------                                                                                                                                          |:--------------                                                                                                                                                                                   |
```

---
title: Flux vs InfluxQL
description: >
  Flux is an alternative to InfluxQL and other SQL-like query languages for querying and analyzing data.
  Learn about what's possible with Flux and how Flux compares to InfluxQL.
menu:
  influxdb_2_0_ref:
    name: Flux vs InfluxQL
    parent: Flux language
    weight: 105
---

> Flux is an alternative to [InfluxQL](/{{< latest "influxdb" "v1" >}}/query_language/)

Author: I don't know if it's necessary. The InfluxQL docs in 2.0 don't provided an overview of the language. This link does. I'm not sure how to update the text to say "this is in the 1.x" docs without making it sound like InfluxQL is only available with 1.x.

> Flux is an alternative to [InfluxQL](/{{< latest "influxdb" "v1" >}}/query_language/)

Reviewer: Maybe not necessary, but potentially unclear (you're not in the latest version of the docs)?
Alternatively, we could link to InfluxQL within the 2.0 context +add conceptual info about why overview isn't included in the 2.0 docs, and link to "For more information, see 1.x for an overview of InfluxQL"

and other SQL-like query languages for querying and analyzing data.
Flux uses functional language patterns making it incredibly powerful, flexible,
and able to overcome many of the limitations of InfluxQL.
The information below outlines many of the tasks possible with Flux that are not
possible with InfluxQL and provides information about Flux and InfluxQL parity.

- [Possible with Flux](#possible-with-flux)
- [InfluxQL and Flux parity](#influxql-and-flux-parity)

## Possible with Flux

- [Joins](#joins)
- [Math across measurements](#math-across-measurements)
- [Sort by tags](#sort-by-tags)
- [Group by any column](#group-by-any-column)
- [Window by calendar months and years](#window-by-calendar-months-and-years)
- [Work with multiple data sources](#work-with-multiple-data-sources)
- [DatePart-like queries](#datepart-like-queries)
- [Pivot](#pivot)
- [Histograms](#histograms)
- [Covariance](#covariance)
- [Cast booleans to integers](#cast-booleans-to-integers)
- [String manipulation and data shaping](#string-manipulation-and-data-shaping)

> - [Work with geo-temporal data](#work-with-geo-temporal-data)

Author: I'm not sure how best to categorize these. Do you have any thoughts?

> - [Work with geo-temporal data](#work-with-geo-temporal-data)

Reviewer: Thought we could rephrase as tasks, and then group the tasks by category. Also helps us keep list (somewhat) parallel:

**Join data**
     - From multiple buckets and measurements
     - Across two measurements to perform a math calculation 
     - From multiple data sources

**Filter data**
     - Sort by tags
     - Group by column
     - Window by calendar months and years
     - Query by hour (DatePart)

**Calculate data**
    - Calculate covariance
    - Calculate math across two measurements

**Work with data**
    - Type cast data
    - Pivot data
    - Manipulate string data
    - Shape, filter, and group geo-temporal data

  |> aggregateWindow(every: 1mo, fn: mean)
```

### Work with multiple data sources
InfluxQL can only query data stored in InfluxDB.
Flux can query data from other data sources such as CSV, PostgreSQL, MySQL, Google BigTable, and more.
Join that data with data in InfluxDB to enrich query results.

- [Flux CSV package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/csv/)
- [Flux SQL package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/sql/)
- [Flux BigTable package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/experimental/bigtable/)

<!-- -->
```js
import "csv"
import "sql"

csvData = csv.from(csv: rawCSV)
sqlData = sql.from(
  driverName: "postgres",
  dataSourceName: "postgresql://user:password@localhost",
  query:"SELECT * FROM example_table"
)
data = from(bucket: "example-bucket")
  |> range(start: -24h)
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "sensor")

auxData = join(tables: {csv: csvData, sql: sqlData}, on: ["sensor_id"])
enrichedData = join(tables: {data: data, aux: auxData}, on: ["sensor_id"])

enrichedData
  |> yield(name: "enriched_data")
```

_For an in-depth walkthrough of querying SQL data, see [Query SQL data sources](/influxdb/v2.0/query-data/flux/sql/)._

### DatePart-like queries

> InfluxQL doesn't support DatePart-like queries that only return results during specified hours of the day.

Author: "DatePart" is a specific category of SQL functions that anyone coming from a SQL context will understand. This is also a keyword that people use when searching for these types of functions.

> InfluxQL doesn't support DatePart-like queries that only return results during specified hours of the day.

Reviewer: Gotcha. Thought about folks coming from InfluxQL or Flux...in case someone's just learning Flux and happened upon "Possible with Flux"

bc we refer to "hourSelection" function and hour is a specified "DatePart" maybe we rephrase to "Query by hour" (and then refer to "DatePart" in the description in case folks search for that)?

```js
table1 = from(bucket: "example-bucket")
  |> range(start: -15m)
  |> filter(fn: (r) =>
    r._measurement == "measurement_1"
  )

table2 = from(bucket: "example-bucket")
  |> range(start: -15m)
  |> filter(fn: (r) =>
    r._measurement == "measurement_2"
  )

cov(x: table1, y: table2, on: ["_time", "_field"])
```

### Cast booleans to integers
InfluxQL supports type casting, but only for numeric data types (floats to integers and vice versa).
[Flux type conversion functions](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/type-conversions/)
provide much broader support for type conversions and let you perform some long-requested
operations like casting a boolean values to integers.

##### Cast boolean field values to integers
```js
from(bucket: "example-bucket")
  |> range(start: -1h)
  |> filter(fn: (r) =>
    r._measurement == "m" and
    r._field == "bool_field"
  )
  |> toInt()
```

### String manipulation and data shaping
InfluxQL doesn't support string manipulation when querying data.
The [Flux Strings package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/strings/) is a collection of functions that operate on string data.

> When combined with the [`map()` function](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/map/),
> functions in the string package allow for operations like string sanitization and normalization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Combine functions in this package with the [`map()` function](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/built-in/transformations/map/) to perform operations like sanitizing and normalizing strings.
```

```js
import "strings"

from(bucket: "example-bucket")
  |> range(start: -1h)
  |> filter(fn: (r) =>
    r._measurement == "weather" and
    r._field == "temp"
  )
  |> map(fn: (r) => ({
    r with
    location: strings.toTitle(v: r.location),
    sensor: strings.replaceAll(v: r.sensor, t: " ", u: "-"),
    status: strings.substring(v: r.status, start: 0, end: 8)
  }))
```

### Work with geo-temporal data

> InfluxQL doesn't provide functionality for working with geo-temporal data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
InfluxQL doesn't support working with geo-temporal data.
```

The [Flux Geo package](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/experimental/geo/) is a collection of functions that
let you shape, filter, and group geo-temporal data.

```js
import "experimental/geo"

from(bucket: "geo/autogen")
  |> range(start: -1w)
  |> filter(fn: (r) => r._measurement == "taxi")
  |> geo.shapeData(latField: "latitude", lonField: "longitude", level: 20)
  |> geo.filterRows(
    region: {lat: 40.69335938, lon: -73.30078125, radius: 20.0},
    strict: true
  )
  |> geo.asTracks(groupBy: ["fare-id"])
```

## InfluxQL and Flux parity

> Flux is working towards complete parity with InfluxQL and new functions are being added to that end.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're continuing to add functions to complete parity between Flux and InfluxQL.
```

The table below shows InfluxQL statements, clauses, and functions along with their equivalent Flux functions.

_For a complete list of Flux functions, [view all Flux functions](/influxdb/v2.0/reference/flux/stdlib/all-functions/)._

> | InfluxQL                                                                                                                                          | Flux Functions                                                                                                                                                                                   |

Reviewer: left-align headers?
